---
layout: post
title: "The first impression"
subtitle: "of the United States"
date: 2020-09-24 10:45:13 -0400
background: '/img/posts/06.jpg'
---
<p>Chapter 3</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>I don't know about you, but all my knowledge about the United States was based on sitcoms and movies. My expectations from life here were based on How I met your Mother, the Big Bang theory, and Friends, which, to be honest, weren't exactly the best sources. But then, I feel like a majority of people have t</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>America was different. In oh so many ways. The first thing to note as I mentioned in my last post was the left hand drive thing, which was kept throwing me off for a good few months and it still does sometime to be honest with you; especially if I've just returned from India. I had seen and heard so much about the United States, but being here in flesh was a bit surreal to me. There was of course the fact that I had never seen any of it in person before, but just driving through Rochester after getting out of the airport was a strange experience. And I could not help but be in awe at how different everything was here.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">Anshuman was waiting for me outside the airport with his car,&nbsp; with some random guy I don’t even remember now. Having fought a war with my luggage ever since I had landed in Chicago, I was glad to finally have a helping hand. He greeted me with warmth which I was in desperate need of at that time, tired and exhausted, both physically and mentally. After the exchange of pleasantries and loading my luggage in the back of his car, I walked towards the left hand side of the car, to take the seat next to the driver as I had mentioned earlier. Boom. Left hand drive. Welcome to America! Anshuman made a point of never letting me forget that moment of course. I got into his car and he drove us back to his place, while I admired the cleanliness of the roads, the beauty of the trees and also the setup of the streets in general. It was abundantly clear what a developed nation meant, seeing those streets. He took a turn into an apartment complex which had buildings very much like the dorms I had seen in Hollywood high school movies. This was pretty neat and I was kind of looking forward to having a place like this for me to stay. Anshuman took me up a couple of flights of stairs and into his apartment and I was in awe of the place the moment I entered through that door. The place had a central dining area with a kitchen behind it, and a couple of stools of the kind which you find at bars, on one side of the dining platform. Beside this was the living room which had a couple of comfy couches, a coffee table and TV on which an American dude was playing games on a PS3. Anshuman introduced me to this guy who was his roommate, whose name I forget, and then took me to his room.&nbsp; All this was feeling surreal to me, the roads, the streets, the buildings, the posh apartment and I was definitely feeling positive for the first time since I had started my journey towards the Indira Gandhi airport in New Delhi. Also, the presence of Anshuman was giving me the feeling that even so far away from home, I had somebody I could count on and thus I did not feel like a fish completely out of the water at that time. Anshuman ordered a Pizza and we talked for an hour before I finally went to bed, looking forward to the next day, and moving in to my own place. That was the first time I had a good nights’ sleep in about two weeks or so. The first hurdle had been overcome: I was in the United States. Now was time to deal with life in the United states.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">Day two.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">Anshuman was about to move out of his current apartment and move to a new one and thus it made sense for me to move into my own place as soon as possible. Also, I should mention now that I had found a place to stay through a friend’s friend in Lucknow who was also joining RIT. I met up with him in Lucknow and we decided to share a room in a two bedroom apartment, whose lease had been signed by a third guy who was taking the second room. So naturally, I wanted to check out my new apartment as soon as possible. Also, I was kind of excited after seeing Anshuman’s apartment and imagining have a place like that to myself. And if you’ve been paying attention to what I’ve told you so far, I am sure you’ll know how much of a shock I was in for. I do not know how but everything I had ever thought about at that point of time never turned out the way I had expected it to be and therefore, my apartment was nowhere near like the one I had imagined. Anshuman drove me to this apartment complex called Crittenden Way and introduced me to a few of his friends who lived there.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">Now I am sure you’ve seen those stereotypical Bollywood movies set somewhere abroad, wherein there is a happy Indian community concentrated in one particular area in that foreign land,who sing and dance to stereotypical festive songs. Well, Crittenden was pretty much the same, except for the fact that instead of a happy Indian community, it was home to stressed out broke Indian students who lived in crappy cramped apartments; one more thing which I had not anticipated. I was looking forward to staying in dorms or cool apartments with a group of people who were culturally diverse.&nbsp; But I had seen more diversity in New Delhi than I was seeing here. We were all Indians there, with the odd American or Chinese in between, not that it was a bad thing, just unexpected.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">So anyway, we went up to the building where my apartment was supposed to be. To be honest, the buildings were not bad at all. They were all made of red bricks and had white roofs, with each building having 8 apartments if I remember correctly. There were trees and green patches of grass dispersed in between these buildings, which looked quite pretty under the crystal clear blue sky which I should tell you is the best part of the American summer, with bright sunshine and greenery; the kind of things for which you would probably have to travel to Ladakh or some other mountainous region to see in India. The apartment complex did have a bit of an American fee. We entered the building and rang the doorbell, as we waited for a completely new guy whom I had never met but who was to be by roommate for the next year at least.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">Now this was my first step into my new life. I was happy, even excited about it and had an open mind about meeting new people and was thus expecting something similar from the person who was on the other side of that door. We heard somebody’s footsteps, and the door creaked open, and we came face to face with a guy I am going to call Mr. X. He was barely 5 feet tall, had a bit of a receding hairline, and a small circular face, with frameless spectacles. He was wearing a black vest and for some odd reason, had his shoulders squared up, as if he was trying to make himself look big or intimidating, neither of which were achieved. Our eyes met for a second, and I, brimming with newfound enthusiasm to meet this new guy and start this new chapter, was expecting him to be in the same boat. He, after our brief eye contact, nodded at me, turned around, and went straight to his room. What a cheerful amicable friendly guy, right?. This acute lack of courtesy pissed both me and Anshuman off, but it was me who had to live with him and that was already making me uncomfortable about what I had gotten myself into. But I brushed my fear aside and reasoned that I am also an introvert and maybe the guy is one as well. May be he did not react well to meeting new people, very much like me and he may still turn out to be a nice guy. This was me being a lot more open minded about this guy than even I expected myself to be. I felt a little proud of myself for it, grinned, and went after him to shake his hand anyway, and had a brief conversation with him. Mr. X had just landed the previous night. Another reason for his weird behavior could be the jet lag, I thought. The apartment was not bad at all. It had a pretty big living room, two bedrooms on the right, with a bathroom straight in front. Attached to the living room was a pretty big kitchen. But, I was put off by this apartment. Why? Because I had just seen the apartment that Anshuman had been living in, equipped with everything you can ever need: furniture, tv, utensils, beds, etc. My apartment was completely empty. There was not a single thing to be seen in there except for Mr. X’s luggage, and it was clear that a lot of work would be needed to make this place worth living.&nbsp; Another thing added to the list of things I had not anticipated. I wasn’t even counting anymore because that damn list just seemed to keep growing all the time!</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">I finally did move in to the apartment and over the next few days, with Anshuman’s help, got the basic necessities for the apartment sorted.&nbsp; All of this happened by the 15</span><span style="font-weight:400;">th</span><span style="font-weight:400;"> of August 2014, and with a week still to go for University to actually begin, I had a week of orientations to attend. I learned all sorts of stuff ranging from how to deal with a cop if you were ever pulled over, how not to walk around on the roads as that was something which wasn’t too common in the United States etc. Also, the orientation process was when I finally realized that the only people who come to the United States for their Masters were Indians. I did not see a single person that was not an Indian in that orientation. Even when I joined classes later, the breakdown of a class of 30 was usually as follows: 25 Indians, 3 Chinese and 2 Americans. The funniest part of this whole orientation process was one particular session about social interactions with people in the United States. In short, they told us how the people were used to what they called “small talk”, stuff like “How are you?”, “How’s it going?” etc.&nbsp; And if someone talks to you in similar terms, it does not necessarily mean they want to be friends with you. What I made of it was that they were basically telling us young Indian men that if an American girl was talking to you or being nice to you, she is not “interested” in you, quite the opposite of what we may have deduced from American sitcoms. Absolutely hilarious. And embarrassing.&nbsp;</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">These orientations were not a whole day thing. They were usually something like 3 or 4 hours a day and then we had nothing to do the entire day, which is why I got so much time to ponder over my life decisions. With so much free time and nothing to do, I came across a new challenge: time zones. My family, my friends and my girlfriend were of course still In the Indian time zone and talking to them was now proving to be a lot more difficult. With orientations in the morning, by the time I got back to my apartment in the afternoon, it was well past midnight in India and the only people I could only talk to were my parents and girlfriend, all of whom were usually on the brink of falling asleep by the time I called.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">Secondly, after talking to them, I had the entire day to myself in which I had absolutely nothing to do which made me realize a new challenge of living in the United States: living without a car.&nbsp; In my first week there, I thought of exploring Rochester since I had so much time to kill in the evenings. I quickly realized that the United States was not made keeping pedestrians in mind. The buses were far and few in between and usually never led to any place directly. You had to walk a lot of the way for getting anywhere which was neither safe nor convenient. Getting to University and coming back home was comparatively easier as both were on a bus route.&nbsp; Also, upstate New York, which was basically the northern part of New York state had some issues with Ride share apps and they were not functional in that area at that time. I hear they are planning to get into that area now though which is great.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">Amidst all this chaos, the second guy in our apartment, lets call him Mr. Y, arrived. I was sharing my room with Y and he seemed to be a nice guy: jovial and outgoing. He came into my life as a beacon of hope of something positive. This was also to prove wrong later of course.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p><span style="font-weight:400;">With not much to do, no car, and nowhere to go, that week has to be one of the most boring ones I have ever faced in my life. This “moving to America and starting a new life” thing was starting to get on my nerve and I had no idea how to deal with it.</span></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->
